{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf340
\cocoascreenfonts1{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\margb1800\margt1800
\deftab1102
\pard\tx283\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\tx7370\tx7937\tx8503\pardeftab1102\li283\slleading210\pardirnatural

\f0\fs42 \cf0 \CocoaLigature0 From DevOps to BimOps
\fs21 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx283\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\tx7370\tx7937\tx8503\pardeftab1102\li283\slleading180\pardirnatural

\fs36 \cf0 DevOps
\fs21 \cf0 \
\pard\tx283\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\tx7370\tx7937\tx8503\pardeftab1102\li283\pardirnatural
\cf0 The DevOps movement started {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://medium.com/r/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fen.wikipedia.org%2Fwiki%2FDevOps"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 in roughly 2008}} and was designed to address the gap between the development of software (dev) and the operation/use of said software (ops).\cf0  \
\
\cf0 Jez Humble explains that DevOps is\'a0:\cf0  \
\
\pard\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\tx7370\tx7937\tx8503\pardeftab1102\li1133\slleading120\pardirnatural
\cf0 a cross-disciplinary community of practice dedicated to the study of building, evolving and operating rapidly-changing resilient systems at scale.\cf0  \
\
\pard\tx283\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\tx7370\tx7937\tx8503\pardeftab1102\li283\pardirnatural
\cf0 It\'92s important to understand this was not only a technological gap, but more so a process, workflow and human operations gap.\cf0  \
\
\cf0 The initiators identified inefficiencies, recurring problems and ultimately many opportunities for improvement in the space between development and operation. They understood that the closer the two seemingly disparate stages of a software product\'92s lifecycle are integrated, the quicker, leaner and simpler both sides become.\cf0  \
\
\cf0 Ultimately, their thinking and exploration led to a whole new branch of work, a whole new generation of tools and innovations such as continuous deployment or integration, as well as an unprecedented level of automation.\cf0  \
\
\pard\tx283\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\tx7370\tx7937\tx8503\pardeftab1102\li283\slleading180\pardirnatural

\fs36 \cf0 BIM
\fs21 \cf0 \
\pard\tx283\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\tx7370\tx7937\tx8503\pardeftab1102\li283\slleading150\pardirnatural

\fs30 \cf0 aka Better Information Management
\fs21 \cf0 \
\pard\tx283\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\tx7370\tx7937\tx8503\pardeftab1102\li283\pardirnatural
\cf0 As most people operating in the field of BIM will tell you, it\'92s all about process and information management, not just 3D modelling as most newcomers to BIM will assume. This is very eloquently portrayed by Bond Bryan Digital\'92s redefinition of BIM as Better Information Management, see {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://medium.com/r/?url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.bondbryan.com%2Fdigital"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 here}}.\cf0  \
\
\cf0 BIM (as defied above) has the incredibly hard task to guide & power a project for its entire lifecycle, starting from its very first steps as a brief through design, development, construction, then operation and finally starting the process all over again when maintenance, renovation or demolition are needed.\cf0  \
\
\cf0 Delivering a built asset is then a never-ending process with tens or hundreds of parties involved,\'a0\cf0  \
\
\pard\tx283\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\tx7370\tx7937\tx8503\pardeftab1102\li283\slleading150\pardirnatural

\fs30 \cf0 BIM Level 2
\fs21 \cf0 \
\pard\tx283\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\tx7370\tx7937\tx8503\pardeftab1102\li283\pardirnatural
\cf0 Currently, the industry is working towards a set of standards for delivering a built asset digitally, including but not limited to\'a0:\cf0  \
\
\pard\tx283\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\tx7370\tx7937\tx8503\pardeftab1102\li283\fi-240\slleading120\pardirnatural
\cf0 -	collaboration\cf0  \
\cf0 -	modelling standards (level of definition)\cf0  \
\cf0 -	information exchanges\cf0  \
\cf0 -	delivery timetables\cf0  \
\cf0 -	handover procedures\cf0  \
\cf0 -	etc\cf0  \
\
\pard\tx283\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\tx7370\tx7937\tx8503\pardeftab1102\li283\pardirnatural
\cf0 between different parties (architects, contractors, consultants, engineers, etc) and stages (brief, concept, design, construction, operation).\cf0  \
\
\cf0 This is known as BIM level 2 and there are many available resources that define what it is and explain how to achieve it.\cf0  \
\
\cf0 I personally see Level 2 as the precursor to BimOps\'a0: precursor because it has a narrower & more focused scope and is tied to specific deliverables and UK operations, but more importantly because it is bringing together multi-disciplinary teams around the process & data of delivering projects.\cf0  \
\
\pard\tx283\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\tx7370\tx7937\tx8503\pardeftab1102\li283\slleading180\pardirnatural

\fs36 \cf0 BimOps
\fs21 \cf0 \
\pard\tx283\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\tx7370\tx7937\tx8503\pardeftab1102\li283\pardirnatural
\cf0 This brings us to the whole reason of this post\'a0: BimOps.\cf0  \
\
\cf0 I think simply emulating the DevOps semantic model, BimOps could be defined as the link between BIM and operation of a project. However, given the multifaceted nature of BIM, the multiple (neverending) stages and complexity of projects, BimOps would quite obviously need to be the link between each stage of a project as well as the overarching process itself.\cf0  \
\
\cf0 Why mention it as a link between each stage\'a0? Because BimOps does and should handle the transition between each stage of a project\'92s lifecycle.\cf0  \
\
\pard\tx283\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\tx7370\tx7937\tx8503\pardeftab1102\li283\fi-240\slleading120\pardirnatural
\cf0 -	Brief -> Concept\cf0  \
\cf0 -	Concept -> Design\cf0  \
\cf0 -	Design -> Construction\cf0  \
\cf0 -	Construction -> Operation (facility management)\cf0  \
\
\pard\tx283\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\tx7370\tx7937\tx8503\pardeftab1102\li283\pardirnatural
\cf0 [diagrams to be added later]\cf0  \
\
\cf0 Remember that DevOps definition\'a0? Very much still applies here\'a0:\cf0  \
\
\pard\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\tx7370\tx7937\tx8503\pardeftab1102\li1133\slleading120\pardirnatural
\cf0 a cross-disciplinary community of practice dedicated to the study of building, evolving and operating rapidly-changing resilient systems at scale.\cf0  \
\
\pard\tx283\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\tx7370\tx7937\tx8503\pardeftab1102\li283\slleading150\pardirnatural

\fs30 \cf0 BimOps across industry
\fs21 \cf0 \
\pard\tx283\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\tx7370\tx7937\tx8503\pardeftab1102\li283\pardirnatural
\cf0 Mirroring DevOps history, the increasing use of BIM software and processes saw the advent of new positions within the industry: BIM managers, BIM coordinators\'a0, information managers etc.\cf0  \
\
\pard\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\tx7370\tx7937\tx8503\pardeftab1102\li1133\slleading120\pardirnatural
\cf0 BimOps coalesces these roles in one movement and gives it a name.\cf0  \
\
\pard\tx283\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\tx7370\tx7937\tx8503\pardeftab1102\li283\pardirnatural
\cf0 The hope is that in doing so, we will hopefully provide a framework/space for new roles to develop, more clearly define their attributes and foster collaboration across roles, practices and countries.\cf0  \
\
\cf0 Having a common space to operate in and collaborate will give these yet-undefined roles room to not only materialise, grow & mature, but also open up to people whose expertise is invaluable but are currently operating just outside the BIM sphere due to technological (or other) barriers.\cf0  \
\
\pard\tx283\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\tx7370\tx7937\tx8503\pardeftab1102\li283\slleading150\pardirnatural

\fs30 \cf0 BimOps in practice
\fs21 \cf0 \
\pard\tx283\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\tx7370\tx7937\tx8503\pardeftab1102\li283\pardirnatural
\cf0 It\'92s quite clear that as design & computational complexity of projects increases, the overlap between BIM operations and IT & software development will continue to increase.\cf0  \
\
\cf0 Looking at our DevOps cousins, we can learn a lot from their hard work and jump-start progress.\cf0  \
\
\cf0 As first steps, we should strive to have more\'a0:\cf0  \
\
\pard\tx283\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\tx7370\tx7937\tx8503\pardeftab1102\li283\fi-240\slleading120\pardirnatural
\cf0 -	Defined roles\cf0  \
\cf0 -	Automation\cf0  \
\cf0 -	Purpose-made tools\cf0  \
\cf0 -	Quantifiable metrics\cf0  \
\
\pard\tx283\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\tx7370\tx7937\tx8503\pardeftab1102\li283\slleading150\pardirnatural

\fs30 \cf0 Get involved
\fs21 \cf0 \
\pard\tx283\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\tx7370\tx7937\tx8503\pardeftab1102\li283\pardirnatural
\cf0 The above ideas and notes are meant to kick-start some much-needed discussions around roles, expertise, training, where we\'92re headed with BIM and who is leading that charge. 
\i \ulnone (hint\'a0: it should not be software vendors)
\i0 \ulnone \'a0\cf0  \
\
\cf0 They are not meant to be prescriptive, but rather descriptive, open to collaboration and further critical thinking. (meaning i might be way off base here, but it\'92s also possible I stumbled on to something).\cf0  \
\
\cf0 To this end, i\'92ve published this on {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/radumg/BimOps"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 GitHub}} and Medium alike and ask people to openly comment, expand or do some course-correction if necessary.}